User-visible changes in Static Module Record, née Transform Module:

# 0.7.20 (2023-07-17)

- Fixes the preservation of the order of imported modules.
  Does not address potential interleaving order problems with modules that
  use reexports.

# 0.7.16 (2022-12-23)

- Introduces `__reexportsMap__` to `StaticModuleRecord` instance to differentiate
  individual named reexports from local exports to enable correct handling of
  their names in SES.

# 0.6.8 (2021-12-13)

- Reverts a prior change that would have greatly improved the preservation of
  line and column numbers, but resulted in a number of programs failing to
  compile.

# 0.6.7 (2021-12-08)

- Attempts to address line and column alignment matching between StaticModuleRecord
  source text and the generated functor, using a tool called `recast`.

# 0.6.3 (2021-09-18)

- Silences a Babel code generation warning regarding deoptimized styling by
  explicitly opting out of the `compact` mode.

# 0.6.1 (2021-08-12)

- Fixes a bug that caused comments to be duplicated in the program generated
  for a module.

# 0.6.0 (2021-07-22)

- *BREAKING*: Precompiled static module records generated by this version of
  `static-module-record` will not load with SES 0.13.4 or earlier.  The format
  of the preamble has been changed to admit the possibility of a variable named
  `Map` declared in the scope of a module.

# 0.5.0 (2021-06-01)

- *BREAKING CHANGE* This package has been renamed `@endo/static-module-record`.
- *BREAKING CHANGE* This package now only exports a `StaticModuleRecord`
  constructor, suitable for use with the SES shim `importHook` starting with
  version 0.13.0.
- *BREAKING*: Removes CommonJS and UMD downgrade compatibility.
  Supporting both Node.js ESM and the `node -r esm` shim requires the main
  entry point module to be ESM regardless of environment.
  UMD and CommonJS facets will likely return after all dependees have migrated
  away from depending upon the `esm` JavaScript module emulator.

# 0.4.1 (2020-08-20)

- Removes extraneous dependencies that blocked installation.

# 0.4.0 (2020-08-20)

- This version changes the contract of all functions that receive a Babel
  dependency from accepting an object implementing { transformSync and
  transformFromAstSync } to merely { transform and transformFromAst }.
  The former were exported by `@babel/core`, but we are now using the
  API that surfaces from `@babel/standalone` and our fork
  `@agoric/babel-standalone`.
- Module static records are now frozen.
