User-visible changes in `@endo/module-source`:

# v1.1.0 (2024-10-10)

- Adds `@endo/module-source/shim.js` to shim `globalThis.ModuleSource`.
  The shim currently replaces the native `globalThis.ModuleSource` if present.
- Provides an XS-specific variant of `@endo/module-source` that adapts the
  native `ModuleSource` instead of entraining Babel.

# v1.0.0 (2024-07-30)

- Renamed from `@endo/static-module-record` to `@endo/module-source` exporting
  `ModuleSource` instead of `StaticModuleRecord`.

# @endo/static-module-record v1.0.0 (2023-12-12)

- Ensures that `this` is bound to `undefined` in module scope and that the
  vestigial and undeniable `arguments` object in module scope is empty.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.8.0 (2023-08-07)

- Introduces `sourceMapHook` as an option for the `StaticModuleRecord` constructor,
  as documented in `README`.

  Previously, the sole option was a `string` argument for the `sourceUrl`, such
  that this would be appended to the generated source.
  This change allows for the old or new usage:

  ```js
  new StaticModuleRecord(source, sourceUrl);
  // or
  new StaticModuleRecord(source, { sourceUrl, sourceMapUrl, sourceMapHook });
  ```

# @endo/static-module-record v0.7.20 (2023-07-17)

- Fixes the preservation of the order of imported modules.
  Does not address potential interleaving order problems with modules that
  use reexports.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.7.16 (2022-12-23)

- Introduces `__reexportsMap__` to `StaticModuleRecord` instance to differentiate
  individual named reexports from local exports to enable correct handling of
  their names in SES.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.6.8 (2021-12-13)

- Reverts a prior change that would have greatly improved the preservation of
  line and column numbers, but resulted in a number of programs failing to
  compile.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.6.7 (2021-12-08)

- Attempts to address line and column alignment matching between StaticModuleRecord
  source text and the generated functor, using a tool called `recast`.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.6.3 (2021-09-18)

- Silences a Babel code generation warning regarding deoptimized styling by
  explicitly opting out of the `compact` mode.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.6.1 (2021-08-12)

- Fixes a bug that caused comments to be duplicated in the program generated
  for a module.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.6.0 (2021-07-22)

- *BREAKING*: Precompiled static module records generated by this version of
  `static-module-record` will not load with SES 0.13.4 or earlier.  The format
  of the preamble has been changed to admit the possibility of a variable named
  `Map` declared in the scope of a module.

# @endo/static-module-record v0.5.0 (2021-06-01)

- *BREAKING CHANGE* This package has been renamed `@endo/static-module-record`.
- *BREAKING CHANGE* This package now only exports a `StaticModuleRecord`
  constructor, suitable for use with the SES shim `importHook` starting with
  version 0.13.0.
- *BREAKING*: Removes CommonJS and UMD downgrade compatibility.
  Supporting both Node.js ESM and the `node -r esm` shim requires the main
  entry point module to be ESM regardless of environment.
  UMD and CommonJS facets will likely return after all dependees have migrated
  away from depending upon the `esm` JavaScript module emulator.

# @endo/transform-module v0.4.1 (2020-08-20)

- Removes extraneous dependencies that blocked installation.

# @endo/transform-module v0.4.0 (2020-08-20)

- This version changes the contract of all functions that receive a Babel
  dependency from accepting an object implementing { transformSync and
  transformFromAstSync } to merely { transform and transformFromAst }.
  The former were exported by `@babel/core`, but we are now using the
  API that surfaces from `@babel/standalone` and our fork
  `@agoric/babel-standalone`.
- Module static records are now frozen.
